---
tags: [course]
ctime: "2024-04-17T23:06:23"
mstime: "2024-04-17T23:06:23"

level: undergraduate
subject: 
university: mit
completion: closed
percentage: 0
prereq: "( <🎓Universities/MIT/16.650 Engineering Leadership Lab> and <🎓Universities/MIT/16.651 Engineering Leadership> ) or permission of instructor"
coreq: "None."
---

catalog [16.810](http://student.mit.edu/catalog/m16b.html#16.810)

<span style="display: block; padding: 15px; background-color: rgb(100, 100, 100, 0.2);"><font id="m_prereq1480_0" style="display: block; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-weight: bold; padding: 5px">Prerequisites</font><br><span id="prereq1480_0">( [[🎓Universities/MIT/16.650 Engineering Leadership Lab | 6.9110]] and [[🎓Universities/MIT/16.651 Engineering Leadership | 6.9120]] ) or permission of instructor</span></span>
<span style="display: block; padding: 15px; background-color: rgb(100, 100, 100, 0.2);"><font id="m_coreq1480_0" style="display: block; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-weight: bold; padding: 5px">Corequisites</font><br><span id="coreq1480_0">None.</span></span>

<font style="">Description:</font>
<font style="color: grey; font-size: 0.8rem;">Builds fundamental skills in engineering design and develops a holistic view of the design process through conceiving, designing, prototyping, and testing a multidisciplinary component or system. Students are provided with the context in which the component or system must perform; they then follow a process to identify alternatives, enact a workable design, and improve the design through multi-objective optimization. The performance of end-state designs is verified by testing. Though students develop a physical component or system, the project is formulated so those from any engineering discipline can participate. The focus is on the design process itself, as well as the complementary roles of human creativity and computational approaches. Designs are built by small teams who submit their work to a design competition. Pedagogy based on active learning, blending lectures with design and manufacturing activities.  Limited to 30 students. Preference given to students in the Gordon-MIT Engineering Leadership Program.</font>



---

<< HELLO, WORLD >>
